Malware Types
Here is the outline of the lesson: First, we're
going to talk about the malware attacks, and next
we're going to talk about the types of malware
malware attacks.
In the most recent report,
there were 5.6 billion malware
attacks carried out in 2020
compared to the 9.9 billion attacks in
the previous years. Knowing this report,
it is important to know what common types of
attacks happening in this era of technology.
Now we're going to talk about the definitions
of the different attacks of malware. First is
Delivery. It means or defines how the malware
gets to the target. Next will be Propagation.
It is defined as how the malware spreads. Payload
What the malware does once it's there on its
target system or devices, and lastly Indicators
of Compromise or IOC. It is an artifact observed
on a network or in an operating system that with
high confidence indicates a computer intrusion.
Now, we are going to talk
about the types of malware.
Based on the report of Symantec, last 2018, there
were 246 million new malware variants discovered,
and about an increase of 25 percent of groups
use destructive malware during that time.
As malware usage continues to rise, it
is important to know what malware types
are there and what we can do to protect
our data and network from these malware.
Listed on the screen are the types of malware
and we are going to define each. So first are
the viruses. What are viruses? there are types
of viruses such as the armored virus which is
a virus that is protected in a way that makes
disassembling it difficult. The difficulty makes
it "armored" against antivirus programs that have
trouble getting to and understanding its code.
So next one would be the companion virus.
It is a virus that creates a new program
that runs in the place of an expected program of
the same name. So, it's like a duplicate or an
imposter kind of virus. The next one would be the
macro virus. It is a software exploitation virus
that works by using the macro feature included
in many applications such as Microsoft Office.
So, multipartite is also a virus that
attacks a system in more than one way.
So, here are more viruses or kinds of
virus such as the phage virus which
can modify or alter the
programs and the databases.
For the polymorphic virus, it is a virus that
changes form. It is quite different with the
phage virus so it changes its form in order to
avoid the detection of the antivirus program.
Next one would be the retrovirus, which is a virus
that attacks or bypass the antivirus software
installed on a computer, and the last one would be
the stealth virus which is a virus that attempts
to avoid detection by the antivirus software,
and it can remain inside the operating system.
Next is crypto malware and ransomware. So what
is a crypto malware? it is a malware that uses
cryptography. What is cryptography? it is a
practice or a study of techniques to secure
communication in the presence of the third party.
Basically, it uses encryption to protect the data
but in this type of malware, it uses cryptography
as part of the attack. It prevents users from
accessing their system or personal files through
encryption and demands ransom payment in order
to gain access. So, it's a bit related with
ransomware. So wherein ransomware, the authors
of the ransomware order that payment be sent via
cryptocurrency online payments or credit card.
So here are some examples like Cryptolocker,
WannaCry, Locky, zCrypt and NotPetra.
Rootkit
It is a malware
designed to provide continuous privileged access
to a computer while actively hiding its presence.
It is a malware that has the ability to obtain
administrative access or root-level access
and hide itself from the operating system.
Trojan or Trojan horse has the same
meaning of where its name came from,
which is from the story of Troy. So, Trojan
horse is a malware that looks legitimate but
does something malicious to its target system. One
of the major differences between a trojan horse
and a virus is that trojan horses
tend not to replicate themselves.
Next is worms. This is a malware that can
replicate copies of themselves within the system
without the knowledge of the user. These worms or
this malware can exploit a vulnerability on the
target system or use social engineering
to trick users into executing itself.
It has the advantage during the file transport,
and it can travel to different systems unaided.
Logic or time bomb
It is an application
or a malware hidden within an application that
causes something to happen based on some criteria
being met. An example of this is when a programmer
could create a program that always makes sure his
or her name appears on the payroll roster, and
if it doesn't, the key files begin to be erased.
Keyloggers is a type of malware wherein users are
unaware that their actions are being tracked. This
is a form of spyware and usually, software for
keyloggers stores your keystrokes in a small file
which can be accessed later by the person
monitoring your actions. Some actions that can
be monitored are key pressed from a keyboard,
mouse clicks, screen recorders or scrapers.
Bots, as defined, are zombie computers due
to their ability to operate on the remote
direction without their owner's knowledge. A bot
is a software program that collects information
on the web. A botnet is a network of compromised
computers under the control of a malicious actor.
The malicious actor is called
a bot herders or bot masters.
Backdoor is an undocumented way of accessing
the system usually when normal authentication
mechanisms are being bypassed. An example
of this is when there is an opening left
in a program application usually by the developer
which allows access to the system or data.
This can be a way for
attackers to enter your system.
RATs or Remote Access Trojans
or Remote Administration Tools
It is a software that remotely gives a
person full control of the technological
device. It allows covert surveillance or the
ability to gain unauthorized access to a victim
PC. It provides the capability for an
attacker to gain unauthorized remote access
to the victim machine while specifically or
specially configured communication protocols.
Spyware or Adware
These are applications
that covertly monitors your online behavior
without your users' knowledge or permission.
APT is a set of stealthy and
continuous computer hacking processes,
often orchestrated by a person or
persons targeting a specific entity.
The advanced process signifies sophisticated
techniques using malware to exploit
vulnerabilities in systems. The persistent
process suggests that an external command
and control system is continuously monitoring
and extracting data from a specific target.
The threat process indicates that human
involvement in orchestrating the attack.